# Enforcing Device Neutrality in the EU: our litigation efforts against Apple to protect Free Software

**Speakers:** Lucas Lasota
                    
**Track:** Open Track
                    
**Room:** 34
                    
**Date & Time:** 2025-06-13 11:00:00
                    
**Duration:** 35 minutes
                    
## Abstract
                    
Our smartphones, tablets, laptops, and other connected devices are general purpose computers. That means we can potentially run any software we want to make full use of the hardware. This potential is fostered by Free Software. 

Therefore, the Free Software Foundation Europe has been promoting Device Neutrality as a concept to allow anyone to run Free Software on their devices. Manufacturers, vendors or platforms should not lock-in users in unfair terms against software freedom.

Because of Device Neutrality we went to court against Apple. 

Apple is one of the largest tech companies in the world. Its unbalanced power spans key aspects of software and devices, profoundly distorting digital markets. Apple’s dominance negatively affects not only competition with and among other companies, but software freedom, open internet and ultimately digital democracy. The company's monopolistic power over its devices is detrimental to Free Software and a high risk for the right of general purpose computers. 

This talk will explain why FSFE's litigation efforts are important for Free Software developers will enjoy less restrictive barriers to access and be able to distribute their software in environments controlled by Apple.

You can learn more at: https://fsfe.org/activities/apple-litigation/
